docs/configguide/postinstall.rst, before:

<Project> post installation procedures
======================================
Add a brief introduction to the methods of validating the installation
according to this specific installer or feature.

Automated post installation activities
--------------------------------------
Describe specific post installation activities performed by the OPNFV
deployment pipeline including testing activities and reports. Refer to
the relevant testing guides, results, and release notes.

note: this section should be singular and derived from the test projects
once we have one test suite to run for all deploy tools.  This is not the
case yet so each deploy tool will need to provide (hopefully very simillar)
documentation of this.

<Project> post configuration procedures
--------------------------------------
Describe any deploy tool or feature specific scripts, tests or procedures
that should be carried out on the deployment post install and configuration
in this section.

Platform components validation
---------------------------------
Describe any component specific validation procedures necessary for your
deployment tool in this section.

Commit message:

Adding aligned structure and segmenting the configguide.
Also set heading levels for readability and added missing licence headers.
Copied the header where I copied content, so please be mindful and inform me if you disagree.
Removal parts of userguide duplicated with configguide. Take the others into faq.rst
Removal duplicated references in installerconfig.
Removal redundant png files.
Release notes update for Brahmaputra release.

Change-Id: I6e1a101107752f4bc7b6e3bbaea0738690d07af8
Signed-off-by: ChristopherPrice <christopher.price@ericsson.com>
Signed-off-by: Justin-chi <chigang@huawei.com>
(cherry picked from commit 3eab3cd722870e6c02ee1337d3536dc68f89b13e)

docs/configguide/postinstall.rst, after:

.. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Licence.
.. http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0

.. commented as there is no content for this file at this time.

.. <Project> post installation procedures
.. ======================================
.. Add a brief introduction to the methods of validating the installation
.. according to this specific installer or feature.

.. Automated post installation activities
.. --------------------------------------
.. Describe specific post installation activities performed by the OPNFV
.. deployment pipeline including testing activities and reports. Refer to
.. the relevant testing guides, results, and release notes.

.. note: this section should be singular and derived from the test projects
.. once we have one test suite to run for all deploy tools.  This is not the
.. case yet so each deploy tool will need to provide (hopefully very simillar)
.. documentation of this.

.. <Project> post configuration procedures
.. --------------------------------------
.. Describe any deploy tool or feature specific scripts, tests or procedures
.. that should be carried out on the deployment post install and configuration
.. in this section.

.. Platform components validation
.. ---------------------------------
.. Describe any component specific validation procedures necessary for your
.. deployment tool in this section.
